Welcome back.
Let's talk about something similar yet slightly different to curry.
It's called partial application and partial application is a way for us to well partially apply a function.
It's a process of producing a function with a smaller number of parameters.
What does that mean.
Well it means taking a function applying some of its arguments into the function so it remembers those
parameters and then it uses closures to later on be called.
With all the rest of the arguments.
OK.
So let's see how that looks and code and then compare it to Curry with partial application.
We can say that the code below is well it uses partial application BUT WHAT IF WE HAD A B and C that
we're using that we want to multiply.
So we have three numbers now three arguments well partial application says hey I want to apply let's
say a portion of the parameters for example a.
And then the next time I call that function I want to apply the rest of the arguments.
So let me show you the code version first the curried version will simply have a nother error function
in here that will be C and then we do a b c and then finally we can remove all this and simply say curried
multiply three times four times ten which is well and instead of brackets.
Remember this is curried.
So I call it three times three times four times ten.
If I click Run I get one hundred twenty three times four times ten is one hundred and twenty partial
application says no no no what I want you to do is I want you to call the function once and then apply
the rest of the arguments to it.
So that means on the second call I expect all the arguments.
So how do we do that.
Well we can do partial multiply by five and we can just simply say we want to use the multiply function
and we want to bind which remember gives us a another function but we don't really care about this.
There's no such thing as this here.
So I'm just going to give it no because I don't care but I want to use bind as a way to pass a parameter
or an argument into partial multiplied by five in which case that would be five so that if I do partial
multiply by five what we have that we have multiply function with the five applied right over here so
that if I do partial multiply by five and I remove and I call just four and let's say 10 and I run this
look at that I get two hundred because I've partially applied a parameter the a parameter and then I
get to call the rest of the parameters B and C like this so that's the main difference between currying
and partial application partial application is on the second call.
I expect all the arguments currying says I expect one argument at a time.
Now I know what you're thinking why are you showing me this.
I see not much application of this.
Don't worry.
Hang in there.
We're almost done with all these terms and we're gonna start to use them in our exercise to see how
they might benefit us.
So hang in there.
Promise it's gonna get better.
I'll see in the next Bye.